---
title: Main error messages, returned by wxis
permalink: /docs/en/9-documentation/errors
lang: en
key: docs-errors-en
---

    <a name="Principais_mensagens_de_Erros.2C_retornados_pelo_wxis"></a>

### Return codes

```
    0-successful
    1-Data Entry Lock denied
    2-Record Lock denied
    3-Record Update denied
    4-Record not locked
    5-Lock id does not match
    6-Inverted Update denied
    7-Lock expire time not reached
```


### WXIS|compiled error|undefined message|4/6| 

Accessing database. The error `compiled error|undefined message|4/6` does not give more information because it occurred in a compiled script, which eliminates the error messages. There may also be several causes, for example: 1 - The calling script was not found (most common cause) 2 - It is possible to execute the script not compiled to verify its correct operation. Try to put cgi-bin (or scripts, or cgi-local) after IsisScript and like this by using the box in the browser's right box to the extension of the xic script name for xis (if the script is available, call the script click "open" on the navigation bar).


### WXIS|execution error|field

Carrying out a search in the data base. Probably based on dice I have some "subjects". For example: fields without content; control characters; Spaces do not end (or start) two fields.



```
1) Faça uma cópia de segurança da base da datos;
2) Execute the MXCP utility to create a new database without errors.
3) Substitutes old base for new skin.
4) Gere or inverted for a nova base;
```

### WXIS|execution error|file|tmpnam| 

Carrying out a search in the data base. Access rights do not allow recording in the CGI directory. Normally, for security, writing is not allowed in the CGI execution directory. So use CI_TEMPDIR not ciparate the script. For example:

```
    CI_TEMPDIR=c:\windows\temp, or CI_TEMPDIR=/tmp
```

### WXIS|execution error|search|temporary file 

Lack of direct access to write. Alter the paths to allow writing to the CGI paste, or add not ciparating the script to the CI_TEMPDIR=path_pasta_temp declaration.

### WXIS|execution error|format syntax|@FMT.PFT|

Cannot execute the FMT.PFT format file. Verify path and existence of format file, including box for *nix systems



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|flupdat/Typemfr

Accessing database. Existence of characters not allowed (for example, control characters) in the database. Execute MXCP with CLEAN clause in database.



```
1) make a security copy of the data base;
2) run the mxcp command base_in create=base_out clean log=base;
3) copy base_out over base_in: copy base_out.* base_in.*
```

### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable |mstsetup allomaxv 

Ao inverter database. Problem in previous versions of WXIS 4.0 release September 26, 2000. Download and install version 4.0 above the release of September 26.

### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|b5_run/offset|

Carrying out a search in the data base. Problems with or inverted, for example, when this aponta for mfn do not exist in the database. Regenerate or replace or invert the data base. Common occurrence when the master file loses synchronism with the inverted file of the database, for example, when it is updated without performing "update" of the inverted file.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|b63_run/write/6

Carrying out a search in the data base. The searcher was not able to record the temporary file, probably due to lack of access rights. Use CI_TEMPDIR not ciparate. For example: CI_TEMPDIR=c:\windows\temp. Delete temporary files. Verify the rights of access to the temporary archives paste for the user.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|cntread/read/cnt|

Carrying out a search in the data base. Please try that the database is in the format of another platform. For example, in a Linux system try the Windows system base. Exchange the files of the data base and invested for the operating system of the platform. To carry out this truck there are two main paths:



```
1-Export ISO-2709 from the original platform, with import and generation of investment in the final platform
2-I start two applications CRUNCHMF (master file) and CRUNCHIF (inverted file) that generate two files from the original final platform (cross-generation). Error similar to: <b>WXIS|fatalerror|unavoidable|recread/check/base|</b>
```

### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|msopn/w| 
Trying to write to the database. The operational system locks the master file (MST), or at least or leaves you unavailable for writing. Copy the MST and XRF files (working copy) and shoot the MKXRF on the copy. If everything is ok, copy over or original. The last term of the message means Master OPeN for Write.

### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|recisis0/xrf

Trying to write to the database. Cannot save or create file. Direitos de acesso do diretório does not allow writing or does not exist or file (in the case of taxation). Change access rights from form to allow writing. Verify if it exists or file to be taxed.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|recread/check/base|

Accessing data base for reading. Read bases and inverts of different platforms. Export the data via ### ISO-2709 and restore inverted, or perform CRUNCH?F for the data base Error similar to: `WXIS|fatal|error|### unavoidable|cntread/read/cnt|`



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|recread/xropn/w|

Lack of access rights for writing. Verify and adjust the writing access rights in order to allow non-directory writing and database files. The last message term means XRf OPeN for Write. Another possibility is: set permissions for R & W for the "bases" and "htdocs" and R & W & X for "cgi-bin" directories.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|cifm1/select/endselect|

I will display a record. Format with errors in the syntax of SELECT ... CASE ... ELSECASE ... ENDSEL. Review and correct the format.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|CIIFL/invalid link record/key|

Generating the inverted file as wxis1660. It did not complete the generation of the inverted and blocked the database. Given field with continuous sequence of more than 60 characters. Edit record and correct the given element in the field.



### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|recupdat/crec/nxtmfp/MSBSIZ|

The NXTMFP column of the control record of the master file is indicating a number greater than 500. In the control record, NXTMFP indicates the first free position within the last block allocated to the master file. The blocks are 512 bytes long, meaning that a record can start in any free position between 0-498 and be extended by one or more blocks. No record can start between byte 500 and 510.



There are two ways to solve this problem:

- Create an ISO file from the base that shows this error. Then isso, breed and invest at the base again

- Use the MXCP application applying the clean property to correct the positioning of the block. Reinvert based on this procedure

### WXIS|fatal error|unavoidable|recwrite/check/even| 
This error occurs when using the MKXRF after the CTLMFN when the NXTMFP column of the base control record shows a number greater than 500. The procedure used to solve this problem is the same as that described, no `WXIS error|fatal error|unavoidable|recovery /growth/nxtmfp/MSBSIZ|`

### cntwrit/cnopn/w

Trying to save the inverted file, because I don't have the necessary access rights. Verify and alter the rights of written access, not direct and invested files. For example, in DOS use the attrib comment: attrib -r *.* The last term of the message indicates CNt OPeN for Write In Unix / Linux systems use the chmod command as appropriate.



### fatal: iso_loadbuff/kj

Error normally related to the lack of the line delimiter (the ISO is generally not the last record). If you use hexdump (hexdump -C <name>) for confirmed in the absence of the line delimiter (in DOS CR+LF, in Linux LF and in MacOS CR) at the end of the file, just include the delimiter at the end of the file , as follows, for example:



```
    echo > dummylf # Create a file only with the line delimiter
    cat <nameiso> dummylf > result.iso # Embed the delimiter in a new file with the original content
```

### fatal: msrt/loadxrf/overflow 

The base is poorly built, at least not in CISIS strict sense, particularly for the MSRT program. More specifically, the XRF file has more blocks than I should. Rebuild database with the command:

```
    <i>mx base_in create=base_out -all now</i>
```

For example, BASE_IN with 846 records and 17,408 bytes not XRF during MSRT execution leads to an overflow in the xrf memory area within the program, therefore, the 846 records require 7 xrf blocks (3584 bytes), which are allocated hair program. But, loading the 17,408 bytes of BASE_IN (that would be 34 blocks) results in overflow. I do not file XRF each block (512 bytes) points to 127 records.

### fatal: mxtb/maxhash/overflow

The MXTB does not have enough memory for its execution. Use the "class=n" parameter to allocate more memory. If the result is an error of allocation (/alloc) decreases or value n



### fatal: posting/ifpnxtby

Inverted file with problem. Generate the inverted file again.



### fatal: dbxopen:dbn(1)

The operating system (MS-DOS) returned or error code 1: invalid function number. Make sure that there is no buffer or enough files to open the database



### fatal: dbxopen:dbn(2)

The operating system (MS-DOS) returns error code 2: File not found. Verify location of the database, or regenerate this database



### fatal: dbxopen:dbn(4)

The operating system (MS-DOS) returns error code 4: Too many open files Increase the CONFIG.SYS number of files and buffers to 90 or more (requires system restart). A database being read represents 2 open files. Each index being accessed implies at least 6 open files, likewise, it is possible, easily, to exceed the maximum number of open files by the operational system.



### fatal: dbxopen:dbn(65)

The operating system (MS-DOS) returned or error code 65: Access denied. Verify (and correct) the permissions of the file. Attrib for DOS, or in a network environment verify the access rights



### fatal: dbxopen:dbn(68)

In MS-DOS, or Windows command prompt, open database. The operating system (MS-DOS) returned or error code 68: Network name limited exceed. The size of the red name storage area should be increased. This is feito increased or FILES value is not in the CONFIG.SYS file (requires system restart)



### fatal: dirread/check/mfrl

I read a directory, I did a check not register, and there was a problem due to a lack of consistency between MST and XRF. Determine or record the problem and delete it



### fatal: ifload/CIIFL/keys not sorted

Ao inverter database. As of Linux 6.2 it is necessary to set the system variable LC_ALL, as shown: export LC_ALL=POSIX, because this version of Linux is muted or default. Set to system variable: LC_ALL=POSIX. Linux Red Hat 6.2 or higher (verify kernel version).



### fatal: mstsetup/allomxv/.xrf

Database larger than or capacity limit of the MSRT program. Use an updated version of the application. Using the MSRT there is a maximum sort size



### fatal: recreate/check/nvf

Number of directory entries (variable fields). Create a new database without damaged records, or try to pass the MKXRF utility (it is possible to lose two records with problem). The XRF indicates that the record is located at the right number of the MST, therefore it is wrong and inconsistent.



### fatal: recwrite/deleted

It is recording the deleted record and causes an inconsistency in the reverse as the master. Generate the inverted file again.



### fatal: iso_getval

Common problem when transferring from UNIX to DOS or vice-versa from an ISO file in binary mode. Reset FTP transfer in ASCII mode As an option, use: mx seq=dbn.iso lw=99999 pft=v1/ now >dbn1.iso. On *nix systems empregar or dos2unix command, or um tr -d "\015".



### fatal: recreate/check/base

Damaged record - offset to data segment. Create a new base without damaged records, or try to pass the MKXRF utility (it may cause you to find the records with problem). The XRF indicates that the record is located at the right number of the MST, therefore it is wrong and inconsistent.



### fatal: recreate/check/mfrl

Record size problem. Create a new base without damaged records, or try to pass the MKXRF utility (it may cause you to find the records with problem). The XRF indicates that the record is located at the right number of the MST, therefore it is wrong and inconsistent.



### fatal: recreate/read

Can't get the database record. Create a new base without damaged records.



### gizmread/GIZMTAG1/nocc

Gizmo data base without field 1. Insert field 1 in gizmo data base.



### loadfile/overflow

Error executing a format file (PFT), probably because it is too big. Increase or value of FMTL. For example: mx base_in join=base_j,260=v480 fmtl=20000 lw=9000 pft=@format.pft create=base_out -all now tell=2000.



### rec write/xropn/w

It is not possible to record information on the base. Verify and adjust the access rights.



### recalloc /allomaxv /rechsize+nbyte

No mx, it may be due to digitation with UPPER CASE characters. No WWWIsis version 3, must be verified due to the restriction related to the size of the base, verify version of WWWIsis.



### recwmast/write/rec

It may be that the file master exceeds the size limit of 512 Mbytes. Generate a database with the mstxl parameter equal to 4, then make appends to the base. To generate the base as indicated, carry out:



```
1) echo mstxl=4 > xpar.par;
2) mx cipar=xpar.par create=base count=0
3) add records to base
```

To make or create adding records directly, use or cipar in the operation.

### recwrite/mfblink

The system cannot record the master file due to a lack of integrity between the MST and the XRF. The solution is to create another master using MX.



### refcgets/buffup

Sequential file with very long lines. Use a more recent version of the MX application.



### rejected link 66/440/1/1/

Generation or update of the inverted file. In the generation and update of the inverted file, an invalid term is detected that cannot be recorded without being inverted (blank term, below ASCII 33, etc). Verify the register when the characters are not valid and turn them off or modify them. It can be used for example or MXCP with the CLEAN clause to remove invalid characters. Decoding key: mfn/campo/ocorrência/cnt - 66/440/11/1.



### writbsiz/write

Lack of disk space or, depending on the function, some file exceeds or exceeds the 2 G byte limit. Free space on the disk if necessary, or "divide" based on data in two or more. The use of the proc R is a possibility for a very large database situation