---
title: Configuración inicial (config.php)
permalink: /docs/en/1-configuration/configuration
lang: en
key: docs-configuration-en
---

## Parameters of the config.php file

  
The config.php file located in the central folder provides a series of parameters that allow you to configure some ABCD options:

    date_default_timezone_set('America/Caracas');

Sets the date and time zone. On some servers, the lack of this parameter can cause a "warning" error.

```
The list of valid zones can be consulted in Table of zones
```

  
### $open_new_window

Sets the value of the Open in a new window checkbox located on the ABCD login screen by default. It supports two options:

  ```
         Y : Mark that ABCD is to be opened in a new window
         N : Does not place any mark in the checkbox
  ```

If the checkbox is not checked, then the following ABCD window opens in the same Login window. If Open in new window is selected, a new window opens with the ABCD main menu and the login window remains open. The current version of ABCD does not allow opening multiple windows to run it.

  
### $context_menu

  ```
         Y : allows the use of the right click to present the browser context menu
         N : disables the use of the right button
  ```

  
### $config_date_format

Specifies the format to be used to present and manage the date in the processes that require such a field

  
### $app_path

Indicates the name of the folder where the central ABCD module is located. Do not modify it as ABCD has not been tested with the central folder located elsewhere

  
### $inventory_numeric

This parameter determines if, when reading the barcode of an item in the loan system, you want to eliminate the leading zeros. If the value is Y, the leading zeros are deleted; if the value is N , the leading zeros are not deleted

  
### $max_inventory_length

Indicates the maximum and fixed size of the inventory number. Missing positions are filled with zero.

  ```
         Example:
         $max_inventory_length=8
         will cause the inventory number entered as 567 to be stored as 00000567
  ```

This parameter is taken into account in the processes related to assigning inventory numbers from the copies database.

  
### $max_cn_length

Indicates the maximum and fixed size of the control number. Missing positions are filled with zero.

  ```
        Example:
        $max_cn_length=8
        will cause the control number generated as 567 to be stored as 00000567
  ```

This parameter is also taken into account to generate the corresponding control numbers when using the option [ *Main menu* -> *Utilities* -> *Assign control number* ]

  
### $log

If it has the value Y, a log is kept in the databases folder, log subfolder where all calls to wxis are recorded. This log is stored in the form of a daily file and contains the following information:

  ```
        First line :
      ### Friday 30th of November 2012 07:34:35 AM Operator: abcd
        Identifies the date, time and operator that executes the transaction
        Second line:
        /central/dataentry/inicio_main.php /ABCD/www/htdocs/central/dataentry/wxis/login.xis
        IsisScript=/ABCD/www/htdocs/central/dataentry/wxis/login.xis
        ?base=acces&cipar=c:/bases_abcd/bases/par/acces.par
        &login=abcd&password=adm&path_db=c:/bases_abcd/bases/&cttype=s
        In which the following elements are identified:
            Name of the php script being executed
            Name of the wxis script being called
            Parameters sent to the IsisScript for the corresponding execution
  ```

  Note: We are thinking of also keeping a log per database that reflects the transactions carried out

  
### $db_path

Default path to the folder where the databases are located. This can be modified by using the dbpath.dat file located in the root of the server.

  
### $msg_path

Access path to the folder where the message files (lang) and the online help pages (documentation) are located. By default **$db_path** is used , which allows to keep the messaging and help pages in a single folder for all database folders

  
### $def

It is an array containing the parameters defined in the abcd.def file, located in the folder to which $db_path points.

```
        VERSION=2.0 Beta
        LEGEND1=2009 BIREME - Latin American and Caribbean Center for Health Science Information
        LEGEND2=Version 2.0 Beta for testing
        URL1=http://www.bireme.br
        URL2=http://www.bireme.br
```

  
### $img_path

Access path, by default, where the images and digital documents linked to the records of the databases will be stored. This default directory can be changed using the dr_path.def file which provides more specific information about the storage of digital documents.

  
### $wxis

This parameter defines the path where the executable wxis.exe is located

When this path is present, wxis.exe is executed from a command line call and the parameters are passed by the GET method.

  
### $wxisUrl

If you want to run wxis.exe through the POST method, place in this parameter the URL from which wxis can be invoked. ejm:

```
        $wxisUrl="http://localhost:9090/cgi-bin/$cisis_ver"."wxis.exe";
```

The advantage of using the POST method over the GET method lies in the amount of information that can be sent to the server: 32K with the GET method, unlimited with the POST method.

If both variables - $Wxis and $wxisUrl - are present, then the GET method is given precedence over the POST method


### $FCKConfigurationsPath

Path to the FCKEditor configuration file used to enter the Html Area type fields defined in the FDT


### $FCKEditorPath

Route to the FCKEditor editor used to enter the fields of the Html Area type defined in the FDT

### $adm_login

### $adm_password

Provisional login and password to be accepted as administrators by ABCD. It must be used in the event of loss of the operator database (access) or when the user with administration rights is deleted by mistake


### $dirtree

```
        0 : Does not allow browsing the databases folder
        1 : Allows you to explore the databases folder
```

The browsing function is also dependent on the permissions assigned to the user. If the value 1 is assigned and the user has the appropriate permissions, then a new link is activated in the administration section of the main menu to allow entry to the folder browsing plug-in.


### $change_password

```
        Y : Allows abcd operators to change their passwords
```

If this parameter is not defined, it is assumed that they cannot change their keys.


### $MD5

Use this parameter if you want to encrypt or not the passwords of operators or of any field that is defined as type "password" in the FDT of a database.

```
        0 : do not encrypt passwords
        1 : encrypt passwords
```